Jr welcome thank you if I borrow money
from you yeah to pay off the interest of
video tender rule if I borrow money from
you to pay off the interest of the debt
I owed to Jeff am I not adding to my
debt uh well without dealing with
hypotheticals why don't you why don't
you uh the president seems to think that
a trick question that borrowing money to
pay the interest on the debt is not
adding to the dead I don't understand
that math well what the president made
clear is that we need to get to a place
in his budget absolutely does this where
we are no longer spending more than
we're taking in and what the reality is
is that we have like a lot of family
like some families might have debt on
their credit card with interest rates
that have to be contended with but the
first important step to dealing with
this issue is getting your regular
spending and income in balance so that
you are no longer adding to the problem
the interest is something we have to
deal with and interest payments are a
major portion of our long-term debt if a
problem that we need to that we need to
address but but the but it look it is a
not an inconsequential deal to propose a
budget that cuts as substantially as it
does in targeted areas so that the
federal government lives within its
means in order to be able to continue to
invest in the future because you have to
have economic growth you have to have
job creation if we're going to address
this overall long-term problem when the
president calls for an adult
conversation he means that conversation
should be forthright and politicians
shouldn't be hiding behind cute language
such as we will not be adding more to
the national
even if hundreds of billions of dollars
are being added to the national debt in
interest made on debt that President
Obama held himself create well the debt
is a has been created over a number of
years as you know and and and we came in
here with an economic crisis the likes
of which I daresay nobody in this room
has ever seen and which threatened to
head straight into a depression if we
didn't act but I also remind you that we
inherited that when this administration
came into office this president came
into office an enormous debt that had
been piled up in the previous eight
years and that is part of the problem
and the interest that you're talking
about is on that debt as well but but
look I think it's important to step back
the president is put forward a budget
that seriously addresses the need to
reduce spending that also protects the
key areas that he thinks need to be
invested in so that we can remain
competitive grow the economy create jobs
and he looks forward to working with
Republicans and Democrats in Congress to
deal with both the budget proposals and
the long-term debt and he thinks that we
can there is reason to believe that we
can we can get this done we should
button this you think that we will not
be adding more to the national debt is a
statement that stands scrutiny
absolutely absolutely and and and Jake
we've explained precisely what that
means that in terms of new spending you
know getting or spending and income I
mean our income and spending into
balance that is an important step
towards dealing with our deficit and our
debt well yet J in terms of that
following on that PolitiFact which is
nonpartisan both sides tend to agree
with its nonpartisan analysis look at
the very issue of interest on the dam
and they said that if the President's
budget passes annual spending minus
interest will equal annual revenue
in 2017 so basically that's the point
when the interest on the debt can be put
aside and that basically in the next six
years new spending is going to continue
to add to the day though isn't that
adding to the debt I mean it's not just
interest under that its new spending in
the next six years well you know we
obviously have our budget proposal and
and Jack Lew the budget director has
been outdone answering a far in far
greater detail than then I can or do on
what our budget proposal contains and
the assumptions it contains and the
numbers it contains but you know the
president's made very clear what his
priorities are here and what you know
the reductions that we're looking to
make and how that really is it's the
only plan out there and I would remind
you it is the only budget proposal out
there right now that reduces spending
and brings down the deficit it is a very
serious reasonable proposal that
demonstrates his seriousness about this
debate that says it's fall the president
to say that he's not adding to the debt
it doesn't matter to this White House is
still going to continue to make the
claim that you're not adding to the bed
even when nonpartisan people looked at
it said you actually are what look I
would just refer you to to to the
statements of Jack Lew explaining this
I'm not an economist I know that you've
heard phrases like that before but I'm
not and and we absolutely stand by the
budget